# ts-express-mongoose-starter

ts-express-mongoose-starter is an npm package that allows you to quickly initialize a Node.js project using modern technologies such as Express, Mongoose, and TypeScript. This package generates a basic project structure with pre-configured files, so you can focus on developing your application without having to worry about initial configuration. With ts-express-mongoose-starter, you can start your project in minutes and be confident that you are using best practices to develop a robust and scalable Node.js application.

## Installation

You can install ts-express-mongoose-starter using npm. Make sure you have Node.js installed on your system before proceeding with the installation.

Installation:

```bash
npm install ts-express-mongoose-starter
```

## Usage

After installing ts-express-mongoose-starter and creating a new project with the command ts-express-mongoose-starter my-project, you need to navigate to the project folder with the command cd my-project. Then, you need to install the project dependencies using the command npm install. Finally, to start the server in development mode, you need to run the command npm run dev.

```bash
cd my-project
```

```bash
npm install
```

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Connecting to the Database

To connect your application to a MongoDB database, you need to first access the config.env file located in the env folder. This file contains environment variables for your application.

In the DATABASE field, you need to replace the MongoDB provided commands with your own database connection command. This command contains the address and port of your database.

In the DATABASE_PASSWORD field, you need to put the password used to connect to the database.

Once you have configured these fields, you can connect to the database using the connectToDB function located in the services/db.service.ts file. This function uses the Mongoose library to connect to the database. You can also use a try-catch block to handle connection errors.

## Commands

Once the dependencies are installed, you can run the project using the following commands:

    npm run dev : Starts the server in development mode with automatic reload of changes.
    npm start : Starts the server in production mode using the compiled dist/bundle.js file.
    npm run build : Compiles TypeScript code to JavaScript in the dist/ folder.

## Project Structure

The project generated by ts-express-mongoose-starter follows a basic project structure with pre-configured files to help you get started quickly. Here is a brief description of the most important files and folders:

src/: Contains the source code of the application.
src/controllers/: Contains the controllers of the application.
src/models/: Contains the data models of the application.
src/routes/: Contains the routes of the application.
src/main.ts: The entry point of the application.
src/shared/: Contains files shared by the application.
src/interfaces/: Contains the interface files of the application.
src/types/: Contains the type files of the application.
src/services/: Contains the service files of the application.
env/: Contains the configuration files of the application.
public/images: Contains images stored by the application.
config/: Contains the files that allow to create the application.
index.js: Allows to create the application.
tsconfig.json: The TypeScript configuration for the project.
package.json: The configuration file for your project.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome! If you have any ideas or improvements to make to ts-express-mongoose-starter, feel free to open a pull request or create an issue.

## License

ts-express-mongoose-starter is licensed under the ISC license.
